
SR&ED Glossary
==============


Date: July 15, 2015

**The scientific research and experimental development (SR&ED) glossary
is provided for information purposes only as a plain language
explanation of some of the terms used on the SR&ED Web pages, policies,
forms and guides, when administering the SR&ED legislation under the
federal *Income Tax Act* and the *Income Tax Regulations*. The SR&ED
Glossary does not replace the law, either enacted or proposed.**


A
-

**Adjusted selling cost** / [Coût de vente
rajusté](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#sllng)

For the purpose of calculating [qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd)
adjusted selling costs involves the tracing of the costs incurred by
[non-arm's length
(NAL)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nl)
parties in providing a property such that there will be no inter-company
profit included in the cost of the property to the performer. The cost
to the party performing the SR&ED will be the cost incurred by the NAL
party who acquired the property at arm's length.

**Adjusted service cost** / [Coût de service
rajusté](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#srvc)

For the purpose of calculating [qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd),
adjusted service cost involves the tracing of the costs incurred
by [non-arm's length
(NAL)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nl)
parties in rendering a particular service such that there will be no
inter-company profit included in the cost of the service to the
performer. The cost to the party performing the SR&ED will be the cost
incurred by the supplier of the service by the NAL party who rendered
the particular service to the performer (the cost incurred by the
supplier of the service will also be adjusted if it includes the cost of
a service rendered by a party dealing at NAL to that supplier).

**Agricultural check-offs** / [Contributions de
l'agriculteur](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#grcltrl)

Agricultural check-offs are contributions made to agricultural
organizations that fund SR&ED.

The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) allows farm producers to earn
[investment tax credits
(ITCs)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
on contributions made to agricultural organizations that fund SR&ED. For
the producers to receive the ITC under the ITA, the agricultural
organization may act as an agent for the producers in matters relating
to SR&ED. In effect, all SR&ED transactions by agricultural
organizations will constitute a transaction made by producers.

For more information please refer to [section 8.0 of the Third-Party
Payments
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/third-party-payments-policy.html#s8_0).

**All or substantially all (ASA)** / [En totalité, ou
presque](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#llr)

All or substantially all (ASA) means 90% or more.

**Analysis** /
[Analyse](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nlyss)

Analysis is the detailed examination of information to differentiate the
various parts of a whole, determine their attributes, or explain their
relationships. It is performed against the background of available
knowledge and experience and it involves using tools such as models,
graphs, statistics, tables, diagrams, mathematical formulas, and
computer programs to express this knowledge or experience. Analysis is
an integral part of the [systematic investigation or
search](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#systmnv)
and it can be used to generate or test a
[hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss).

**Note**\
The following is the explanation of changes to this term as of April 24,
2015.

1.  “systematic investigation or search” replaced “scientific method” as
    the latter is no longer used in policy.

**Applied research** / [Recherche
appliquée](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#ppldrsrch)

Applied research is work undertaken for the [advancement of scientific
knowledge](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt)
with a specific practical application in view.

**Arm's length** / [Sans lien de
dépendance](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rmslngth)

Arm's length refers to a situation where two parties that deal with each
other are not related to each other and no control exists between them.
It is a question of fact whether two parties not related to each other
are dealing with each other at arm's length.

For more information, please refer to Income Tax Folio [S1-F5-C1,
Related persons and dealing at arm's
length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/technical-information/income-tax/income-tax-folios-index/series-1-individuals/series-1-individuals/income-tax-folio-s1-f5-c1-related-persons-dealing-arms-length.html).

**Available for use** / [Prêt à être mis en
service](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#vlbl)

Generally, an asset is considered to become available for use and
eligible for capital cost allowance and [investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
at the earliest of:

-   the time at which the property is first used by the claimant for the
    purpose of earning income; or
-   the time the property is delivered or is made available to the
    claimant and is capable of producing a saleable product or to
    perform a commercially salable service.

For more information, please refer to the [T2 Corporation – Income Tax
Guide](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4012.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

B
-

**Basic research** / [Recherche
pure](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#bscrsrch)

Basic research is work undertaken for the [advancement of scientific
knowledge](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt)
without a specific practical application in view.

**Basic SR&ED investment tax credit rate (15%)** / [Taux de base du
crédit d’impôt à l’investissement pour la RS&DE (15
%)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#bscrt)

The basic rate of an SR&ED investment tax credit (ITC) is 15% for tax
years that end after 2013 and 20% for tax years that end before 2014.
For tax years that include January 1, 2014, the reduction in the basic
ITC rate is pro-rated based on the number of days in the tax year that
are after 2013.

The following types of claimants will earn ITCs at the basic ITC rate on
[qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd):

-   corporations (other than certain [Canadian-controlled private
    corporations
    (CCPC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cndn));
-   sole proprietorships (individuals);
-   partners of a partnership;
-   beneficiaries of trusts.

**Beta site testing** / [Essai bêta sur
site](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#bt)

Beta site testing is the
[testing](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tstng)
or validation of a product or process in a customer or an end-user
facility or environment. Often, the need for this type of testing arises
when the product or process that is being developed cannot be tested in
isolation without the full process environment, or in cases where the
developer is unable to simulate the specialized environment or
conditions required to evaluate the product performance.

While beta site testing is a commonly used term, depending on the
industry or
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy)
involved, other terms may be used to characterize the type of testing
discussed above. These terms include for example, field testing, field
investigation, field trials, validation, offsite testing, consumer
testing, in-situ testing, end-use testing, final verification, or
on-orbit or on-mission testing. The CRA uses the term beta site testing
in a generic sense to refer to all of the above terms.

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

C
-

**Canadian-controlled private corporation (CCPC)** / [Société privée
sous contrôle canadien
(SPCC)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cndn)

For more information on CCPC and other types of corporations, please
refer to the following CRA web page, [Types of
corporations](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/businesses/topics/corporations/type-corporation.html).

**Claim preparer (for the purposes of claim preparer information) /**
[Préparateur (aux fins des informations demandées sur les préparateurs
de
demandes)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#clmprprr)

A claim preparer of an SR&ED form means a person or partnership who
agrees to accept consideration to prepare, or assist in the preparation
of, the form but does not include an employee who prepares, or assists
in the preparation of, the form in the course of performing their duties
of employment. For this purpose, an SR&ED form is a prescribed form
required to be filed under subsection 37(11) of the *Income Tax Act*,
which is the [Form T661 Scientific Research and Experimental Development
(SR&ED) Expenditures
Claim](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t661.html).

**Commensurate with the needs** / [Proportionnel aux
besoins](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cmmnsrt)

Within the context of SR&ED, work that is commensurate with the needs
must be corresponding in the amount, size, extent, or duration that is
necessary to carry out [basic
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch),
[applied
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch),
or [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt).

**Commercial asset** / [Bien
commercial](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cmmsst)

A commercial asset is an asset that is developed for the purpose of
being used within the company’s own business. It is constructed to meet
the company’s own requirements.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED while Developing an
Asset
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/while-developing-asset.html).

**Commercial plant** / [Usine
commerciale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cmmplnt)

A commercial plant is a production facility used for commercial (or
other non-SR&ED) purposes. Although new plants may sometimes be built or
existing commercial plants may be modified, to test and demonstrate new
processes, these plants are generally not [pilot
plants](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#plt)
as their intended purpose and actual use is commercial.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED while Developing an
Asset
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/while-developing-asset.html).

**Commercial production** / [Production
commerciale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cmmprd)

Commercial production is work associated with producing materials,
devices, and products, intended for sale or business operations. It is
expected that a profit will be made.

The definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd)
states that “work with respect to… the commercial production of a new or
improved material, device or product or the commercial use of a new or
improved process” is not included in the meaning of SR&ED.

**Computer programming** / [Programmation
informatique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cmptr)

Computer programming is preparing and coding operating instructions for
a computer.

**Context of the production run** / [Contexte du cycle de
production](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cntxt)

Context of the production run refers to the circumstances under which
the [production
run](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prdcnrn)
is carried out. When [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
work is performed during a production run, the context of that
production run must be established since the allowable SR&ED
expenditures vary depending on that context. In other words, the
circumstances surrounding that production run will determine how the
expenditures are treated. When experimental development work is
performed during a production run, the context of the production run can
be
[ED+EP](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#drp)
or
[ED+CP](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dcp).

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED During Production Runs
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/production-runs-policy-1.html).

**Contract payment** / [Paiement
contractuel](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cntrctpymnt)

A contract payment is:

-   an amount paid or payable to a claimant by a [taxable
    supplier](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tspplr)
    in respect of the amount for SR&ED:
    -   for, or [on behalf
        of](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nbhlf),
        a person or partnership entitled to a deduction for the amount
        as a current expenditure or as a [third-party
        payment](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#thrdpp)
        to a corporation; and
    -   at a time when the claimant and the person or partnership (the
        taxable supplier) are dealing at [arm's
        length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#rmslngth);
        or
-   an amount for an expenditure of a current nature (other than a
    prescribed amount) payable by a Canadian government, municipality or
    other Canadian [public
    authority](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#pblc)
    or by a person exempt from Part I tax, for SR&ED to be performed for
    it or on its behalf.

**Custom product** / [Produit sur
commande](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cstm)

A custom product is an asset that is developed for the purpose of
subsequently being sold. It is constructed to meet customer
specifications or market-driven technical requirements.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED while Developing an
Asset
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/while-developing-asset.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

D
-

**Data collection / routine data collection** / [Collecte de données /
collecte normale de
données](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#dtcllctn)

Data collection is the gathering of information using pre-determined
procedures or protocols. The term routine data collection refers to data
collection that is carried out for supporting normal business
operations, and it is excluded from SR&ED work. Only the data collection
work that is [commensurate with the
needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt)
and [directly in
support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt)
of [basic
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch),
[applied
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch)
or [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
is eligible.

**Depreciable property** / [Bien
amortissable](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#dprcbl)

Depreciable property is any property for which the claimant would be
allowed to claim capital cost allowance.

**Design** /
[Conception](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#dsgn)

Design is work to transform concepts and ideas into a plan.

**Directly attributable to the prosecution of SR&ED** / [Directement
attribuable à des activités de
RS&DE](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prsctn)

An [expenditure of a current
nature](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#crrntntr)
is directly attributable to the prosecution of SR&ED if it is:

-   the cost of materials consumed or transformed in such prosecution
    (please refer to the [Materials for SR&ED
    Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/materials-policy.html));
-   for an employee who directly undertakes, supervises or supports the
    prosecution of SR&ED that would be, the portion of salaries or wages
    incurred, to the extent the amount can reasonably be considered in
    respect of such prosecution (please refer to the [SR&ED Salary or
    Wages
    Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html))
    ; and
-   for other expenditures that are, an expenditure, or portion of an
    expenditure, that is directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED
    and that would not have been incurred if such prosecution had not
    occurred. For more information on other expenditures (please refer
    to the [SR&ED Overhead and Other Expenditures
    Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html)).

**Directly attributable to the provision of premises, facilities or
equipment for the prosecution of SR&ED** / [Directement attribuable à la
fourniture de locaux, d’installations ou de matériel servant à des
activités de
RS&DE](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prvsn)

The following expenditures are directly attributable to the provision of
premises, facilities or equipment for the prosecution of SR&ED in
Canada:

-   the cost of the maintenance and upkeep of such premises, facilities
    or equipment; and
-   other expenditures, or those portions of other expenditures, that
    are directly related to that provision and that would not have been
    incurred if those premises or facilities or that equipment had not
    existed
    ([incremental](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrmntl)).

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Overhead and Other
Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html).

**Directly engaged in SR&ED ** / [Exerce directement des activités de
RS&DE](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nggd)

Directly engaged in SR&ED refers to **hands on** work. Whether an
employee is directly engaged in SR&ED is based on the tasks that are
performed and not on the job title of the employee. For a list of tasks
to be considered as directly engaged, see Table 3 in the [T4088, Guide
to Form T661 Scientific Research and Experimental Development (SR&ED)
Expenditure
Claim](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/t4088.html).

For more information, please refer to [section 7.1 of the SR&ED Salary
or Wages
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html#s7_1).

**Directly in support** / [Appuyer
directement](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#spprt)

Within the context of SR&ED, work that is directly in support is work
that was carried out specifically to perform the related [basic
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch),
[applied
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch)
or [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt).

**Directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED ** / [Directement liée à
des activités de
RS&DE](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rltd)

To be [directly attributable to the prosecution of
SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prsctn)
[in
Canada](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncnd)
under the [traditional
method](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tmthd),
an expenditure, or a portion of the expenditure, must first be an
expenditure directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED in Canada.

For an expenditure to be considered directly related to the prosecution
of SR&ED, the expenditure must connect with (that is, be related to) the
SR&ED work, the SR&ED staff, or the machinery / equipment used by staff
to perform SR&ED, and there must be no intervening step or intermediary
between these elements and the expenditure (that is, directly). In other
words, there must be a direct linkage of the expenditure to specific
SR&ED work, staff, or machinery/equipment. Whether an expenditure is
directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED is a question of fact.

If the expenditure is directly related to the prosecution of SR&ED in
Canada and also
[incremental](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrmntl)
to such prosecution, it can be claimed as SR&ED [overhead and other
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vrhd).

For more information, please refer to [section 3.1 of the SR&ED Overhead
and Other Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html#s3_1).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

E
-

**ED+CP (experimental development in conjunction or simultaneously with
commercial production)** / [DE+PC (développement expérimental simultané
à de la production
commerciale)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#dcp)

ED+CP refers to the [context of the production
run](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cntxt)
when [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
work is carried out in conjunction or simultaneously with [commercial
production](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmprd).
When scientific research and experimental development (SR&ED) is
involved in a production run, but the context of that production run is
not
[ED+EP](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#drp),
the context of the production run must be ED+CP.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED During Production Runs
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/production-runs-policy-1.html).

**ED+EP (experimental development resulting in experimental
production)** / [DE+PE (développement expérimental conduisant à de la
production
expérimentale)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#drp)

ED+EP refers to the [context of the production
run](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cntxt)
when [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
work is carried out resulting in [experimental
production](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xprmntprd).

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED During Production Runs
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/production-runs-policy-1.html).

**Engineering** / [Travaux de
génie](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#ngnrng)[/
ingénierie](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#ngnrng)

Engineering is the practice of designing, composing, evaluating,
advising, reporting, directing, or supervising the construction or
manufacturing of tangible products, assemblies, systems, or processes
that requires in-depth knowledge of engineering science and the proper,
safe, and economic application of engineering principles.

By definition, and according to sound professional practice, engineering
practice does not involve [scientific or technological
uncertainty](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrtnty)
and is thus not eligible on its own. However, engineering work that is
[commensurate with the
needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt)
and [directly in
support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt)
of [basic
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch),
[applied
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch),
or [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
is eligible.

It is important to distinguish between work with respect to engineering
and the work that engineers perform. Even though engineering practice is
not eligible on its own, engineers can still be carrying out [basic
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch),
[applied
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch),
and [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt).

**Note**\
The following are the explanation of changes to this term as of April
24, 2015.

1.  “routine engineering” was removed as there is no differentiation
    between engineering and routine engineering.
2.  A paragraph was added to clarify that even though engineering
    practice on its own is not eligible, engineers could still be
    performing basic research, applied research, or experimental
    development.

**Enhanced SR&ED investment tax credit rate (35%)** / [Taux majoré du
crédit d’impôt à l’investissement pour la RS&DE (35
%)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nhncd)

Some [Canadian-controlled private corporations
(CCPCs)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cndn)
that meet certain requirements may earn investment tax credits at the
enhanced rate of 35% (20% basic rate + 15% enhancement – before 2014)
and (15% basic rate + 20% enhancement – after 2013). This enhanced rate
may be earned on their [qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd)
up to a maximum threshold of \$3 million. The qualified SR&ED
expenditures in excess of the expenditure limit for the tax year earn
ITC at the basic rate.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Excess production** / [Production
excédentaire](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#xcss)

Any
[production](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prdctnn)
beyond what is required for the SR&ED is called excess production.

**Excluded work** / [Travaux
exclus](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#xcldd)

The work identified in paragraphs (e)-(k) of the definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd)
is typically referred to as excluded work and, collectively, these
paragraphs are referred to as the exclusions. This work is not SR&ED.

**Expenditure of a capital nature** / [Dépense en
capital](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#cptlntr)

Expenditures of a capital nature are those expenditures that result in
the acquisition of capital property, which is depreciable property or
property that would result in a gain or loss if disposed. The comments
in the current version of Interpretation Bulletin [IT-128R, Capital Cost
Allowance – Depreciable
Property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it128r.html),
may be of assistance in determining whether a particular property is
depreciable property.

**Expenditure of a current nature** / [Dépense de nature
courante](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#crrntntr)

Expenditures of a current nature made before 2014 are considered to be
those expenditures that do not result in the acquisition of land, a
leasehold interest in land, or property that would otherwise be
depreciable property to the taxpayer.

For SR&ED purposes, expenditures of a current nature made after 2013
include any expenditures made by the claimant other than an expenditure
for:

-   the acquisition of capital property of the claimant, or
-   the use of, or the right to use, capital property, that would be
    capital property of the claimant if the capital property were owned
    by the claimant.

**Experiment** /
[Expérimentation](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#xprmnt)

An experiment is the test of a
[hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss)
under controlled conditions.

**Experimental development** / [Développement
expérimental](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#xpdvlpmnt)

Experimental development is work undertaken for the purpose of achieving
[technological
advancement](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt)
for the purpose of creating new, or improving existing, materials,
devices, products or processes, including incremental improvements
thereto.

**Experimental production** / [Production
expérimentale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#xprmntprd)

Experimental production is defined as the [production
output](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prdtpt)
of [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
that is required to verify whether the objectives of the SR&ED work have
been met or if a [technological
advancement](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dvncmnt)
is achievable. The purpose of the [production
run](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prdcnrn),
in which the output is experimental production, is to evaluate the
technical aspects of the SR&ED project.

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

F
-

**Filing-due date** / [Date d’échéance de
production](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#flngd)

The income tax return filing-due date for a tax year is the day on or
before which a income tax return under Part I of the ITA is required to
be filed for the year or would be required to be filed if tax under Part
I of the ITA was payable.

For more information, please refer to [section 5.0 of the SR&ED Filing
Requirements
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/filing-requirements-policy.html#s5_0).

**First term shared-use-equipment** / [Matériel à vocations multiples de
première
période](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#frsttrm)

To qualify as first term shared-use-equipment, a property must be:

-   [depreciable
    property](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dprcbl);
-   acquired after December 2, 1992, and before January 1, 2014;
-   equipment that does not meet the ASA criteria for SR&ED capital
    expenditures;
-   equipment that is not [prescribed depreciable property
    (PDP)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prscbdpr);
-   equipment other than [general purpose office equipment or furniture
    (GPOEF)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#gpf);
-   new equipment (the equipment must not have been used or acquired for
    use or lease, or for any other purposes before the claimant acquired
    it); and
-   equipment that is used by the claimant during its [operating
    time](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prtngtm)
    in the period starting with the time the equipment was acquired and
    [available for
    use](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vlbl),
    and ends at the end of the first tax year that was at least 12
    months after the time the equipment was acquired and available for
    use, and was used
    [primarily](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prmrly)
    for the prosecution of SR&ED in Canada.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Shared-Use-Equipment
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/shared-use-equipment-policy.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

G
-

**General-purpose office equipment or furniture (GPOEF)** / [Mobilier ou
équipement de bureau de nature
générale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#gpf)

General-purpose office equipment of furniture (GPOEF) includes all
furniture, such as desks, chairs, lamps, filing cabinets, and
bookshelves. It also includes photocopiers, fax machines, telephones,
pagers, and calculators.

Computers, including hardware, software, and ancillary equipment, are
not considered to be general‑purpose office equipment or furniture.

**Government assistance** / [Aide
gouvernementale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#gvrnmntss)

Government assistance is defined in the ITA as assistance from a
government, municipality, or other [public
authority](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#pblc)
whether as a grant, subsidy, forgivable loan, deduction from tax,
investment allowance, or any other form of assistance other than the
federal [investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc).

Government assistance also includes assistance provided by a crown
corporation or a foreign government.

For more information, please refer to the [Assistance and Contract
Payments
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/assistance-contract-payments-policy.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

H
-

**Humanities** / [Sciences
humaines](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#hmnts)

The humanities are branches of knowledge that concern human beings and
their culture or analytic and critical methods of inquiry derived from
an appreciation of human values and the unique ability of the human
spirit to express itself.

As a group of educational disciplines, the humanities are distinct in
content and method from the physical and biological sciences and,
somewhat less decisively, from the social sciences. The humanities
include the study of all languages and literatures, the arts, history,
and philosophy.

Work with respect to research in the humanities is specifically excluded
from the definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).

**Note**

The following are the explanation of changes to this definition as of
April, 2017.

1.  The definition has been simplified to improve understanding and
    clarity

**Hypothesis** /
[Hypothèse](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#hypthss)

A hypothesis is an idea, consistent with known facts, that serves as a
starting point for further investigation to prove or disprove that idea.

**Note**\
The following are the explanation of changes to this term as of April
24, 2015.

1.  The explanation has been simplified to improve understanding and
    readability.

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

I
-

**In Canada (for SR&ED expenditures)** / [Au Canada (pour les dépenses
de
RS&DE)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#ncnd)

Subsection 37(1.3) of the ITA provides that scientific research and
experimental development (SR&ED) expenditures that are incurred, in the
course of a business otherwise carried on by a taxpayer in Canada, in
the zone identified by the *Oceans Act* as the exclusive economic zone
(EEZ) of Canada (or in the airspace above or the subsoil or seabed below
that zone) will be considered to have been incurred by the taxpayer in
Canada. Generally, the *Oceans Act* provides that the EEZ of Canada
consists of the area that is up to 200 nautical miles from the Canadian
coastline. Coastline refers to the low-water line along the coasts of
Canada.

**Incremental (expenditure)** / [Coût
supplémentaire](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#ncrmntl)

Incremental means that the expenditure would not have been incurred if
SR&ED had not occurred.

For more information, please refer to [section 3.2 of the SR&ED Overhead
and Other Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html#s3_2).

**Investment tax credit (ITC)** / [Crédit d'impôt à l'investissement
(CII)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nvstmnttc)

An investment tax credit (ITC) may be earned in respect of various
investments or expenditures. The definition of ITC within the Act
determines the amount of ITC that is available to a taxpayer at the end
of a tax year. There are additional provisions in the Act that adjust
the ITC amount available to the taxpayer at the end of a particular tax
year.

Unless otherwise noted, any reference to ITC within the SR&ED program is
a reference to an ITC earned on [qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd).

For more information please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Investment tax credit (ITC) applied** / [Crédit d’impôt à
l’investissement (CII)
appliqué](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#crdtppld)

[Investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
applied refers to an ITC amount the taxpayer applied against Part I tax
otherwise payable.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Investment tax credit (ITC) carryback** / [Crédit d’impôt à
l’investissement (CII) – Report
rétrospectif](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#crrybck)

[Investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
carryback refers to an ITC amount the taxpayer earned in a tax year and
carried back and applied against Part I tax otherwise payable in any of
the 3 previous tax years.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Investment tax credit (ITC) carryforward** / [Crédit d’impôt à
l’investissement (CII) – Report
prospectif](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#crryfwrd)

[Investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
carryforward refers to an ITC amount the taxpayer has not applied,
refunded, or carried back that can be carried forward and applied
against Part I tax otherwise payable in a subsequent tax year. The
carry-forward period is generally 20 tax years. The ITC expires if it is
not applied to reduce Part I tax otherwise payable within the applicable
number of tax years.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Investment tax credit (ITC) recapture** / [Récupération des crédits
d’impôt à l’investissement
(CII)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rcptr)

The ITC recapture rules will reverse all or a portion of the SR&ED ITC
earned by adding an amount to a claimant's tax payable for the year in
which the sale or conversion to commercial use of an SR&ED property
takes place.

For more information, please refer to the [Recapture of SR&ED Investment
Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/recapture-investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Investment tax credit (ITC) refund** / [Crédit d’impôt à
l’investissement (CII)
remboursé](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rfnd)

The [investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
of certain claimants that is not applied against Part I tax otherwise
payable, or carried back to a previous tax year and applied against Part
I tax otherwise payable in the previous tax year, may be refundable. In
this context, the term refundable goes beyond a reimbursement of Part I
tax already paid and refers to the credit that is reimbursed to the
claimant.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

K
-

**Key individuals** / [Personnes
clés](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#kyndv)

Key individuals are individuals who are directly involved in the project
and are essential to the progress of the project. These are individuals
who will have a good understanding of the scientific or technological
aspects of the project.

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

M
-

**Market research** / [Étude de
marché](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#mrkt)

Market research is the process of gathering and analyzing information
for the purpose of marketing a specific product, especially a new or
proposed product.

Market research is a major discipline of marketing whose main function
is intelligence gathering and analysis on a particular market, industry,
geography, customer group, competitors, or specific product or service
area.

The main uses of market research are: to position a business or
strategic program; to assist in new product or service launches; to
evaluate a product or service's strengths and weaknesses to help
determine how to improve a product or service; to determine customer
wants, needs, and desires; and to analyze competition.

Market research includes work such as:

-   examining such factors as buying habits, use of leisure time,
    consumer needs or wants, and attitudes toward existing products and
    new products being test-marketed;
-   market development and market verification;
-   general market identification;
-   market demonstration;
-   identifying market preference;
-   developing customer acceptance;
-   gathering and evaluating data about consumers' preferences for
    products and services; and
-   studying the requirements of specific markets, the acceptability of
    products, and methods of developing and exploiting new markets.

Work with respect to market research is specifically excluded from the
definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).

**Materials consumed** / [Matériaux
consommés](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#mtcnsmd)

Materials consumed in the prosecution of SR&ED basically means the
material was destroyed or rendered [virtually
valueless](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vrtv)
as a result of the SR&ED.

For more information, please refer to [section 5.0 of the Materials for
SR&ED
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/materials-policy.html#s5_0).

**Materials for SR&ED**  / [Matériaux pour la
RS&DE](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#mtrlfrsrd)

CRA's interpretation of the term materials for SR&ED is all the raw
materials, substances, or other items that compose the body of a thing
at a given moment in the SR&ED process.

For more information, please refer to the [Materials for SR&ED
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/materials-policy.html).

**Materials transformed** / [Matériaux
transformés](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#mtrnsfrmd)

Materials transformed in the prosecution of SR&ED generally means,
material for SR&ED, that has been changed or incorporated into another
material or product as a result of the SR&ED and the material still has
some value either to the claimant or to another party.

For more information, please refer to [section 6.0 of the Materials for
SR&ED
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/materials-policy.html#s6_0).

**Mathematical analysis** / [Analyse
mathématique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#mthmtcl)

Mathematical analysis is the examination of a set of observations by
means of mathematical tools, principles, methods, or techniques.

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

N
-

**Non-arm's length (NAL)** / [Lien de
dépendance](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nl)

Non-arm’s length refers to a situation where two related parties that
deal with each other and one party exerts control over the other. In
other words, the parties are not dealing at [arm's
length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#rmslngth).

**Non-government assistance** / [Aide non
gouvernementale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nngvrnmnt)

Non-government assistance is an amount that is received as an
inducement, refund, reimbursement, contribution, allowance, grant,
subsidy, forgivable loan, deduction from tax, or any other form of
assistance.

For more information, please refer to the [Assistance and Contract
Payments
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/assistance-contract-payments-policy.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

O
-

**On behalf of (SR&ED undertaken)** / [Pour le compte de (RS&DE
exercée)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#nbhlf)

When SR&ED carried out in Canada is undertaken **on behalf of** a
claimant, this normally refers to a situation where the SR&ED work is
contracted out to another party under circumstances where the claimant
(the payer) typically maintains ownership of the SR&ED work performed.

Whether the payer requested the contractor to perform SR&ED on behalf of
the payer under the terms of the contract is a key element for
determining an amount as being a contract payment. This determination is
made on the basis of the terms of the contract read as a whole and by
reviewing all the facts surrounding the particular situation.

**Operating time** / [Temps
d’exploitation](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prtngtm)

The term operating time is not defined in the ITA but, generally,
operating time means the time the equipment usually runs or functions
during the tax year.

For more information, please refer to [section 4.2 of the SR&ED Capital
Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/capital-expenditures-policy.html#s4_2).

**Operations research** / [Recherche
opérationnelle](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prtns)

Operations research is an approach involving the mathematical treatment
of a process, problem, or operation to determine its purpose and
effectiveness, and to gain maximum efficiency.

**Overhead and other expenditures** / [Frais généraux et autres
dépenses](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#vrhd)

Within the context of the SR&ED Program, the term overhead and other
expenditures is often used to refer to certain [expenditures of a
current
nature](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#crrntntr)
that are [directly related to the prosecution of
SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#rltd)
[in
Canada](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncnd)
and that are
[incremental](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrmntl),
or to certain expenditures that are [directly attributable to the
provision of premises, facilities, or equipment for the prosecution of
SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prvsn)
in Canada.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Overhead and Other
Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

P
-

**Pilot plant** / [Usine
pilote](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#plt)

A pilot plant is a production facility that is developed for the primary
purpose of carrying out SR&ED during its useful life. It is used solely
for its technical or experimental content and not for the purposes of
commercial operations.

A pilot plant is a non-commercial scale plant in which processing steps
are systematically investigated under conditions simulating a full
production unit. Usually, it is used to obtain
[engineering](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ngnrng)
and other data needed to evaluate
[hypotheses](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss),
establish finished product technical specifications, write product or
process formulae, or design special equipment and structures that are
required by a new or improved fabrication process.

More specifically, when carrying out SR&ED, pilot plants may be used to
study the behaviour of certain raw materials, develop an economically
viable manufacturing process, modify equipment for new applications,
test unproven equipment, test new conditions, produce samples for
research, or determine environmental effects.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED while Developing an
Asset
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/while-developing-asset.html).

**Pool** / [Compte de
dépenses](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#pl)

The term pool refers to a tax mechanism whereby an amount (the pool) is
calculated by identifying additions and reductions to the balance.

**Pool of deductible SR&ED expenditures** / [Compte de dépenses de RS&DE
déductibles](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#plddct)

It is possible to pool [expenditures of a current
nature](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#crrntntr)
(and [expenditures of a capital
nature](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cptlntr)
incurred prior to January 1, 2014) on
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd)
carried out in Canada, and deduct them when calculating the income from
a business you carried on in the tax year you made the expenditure or in
any later tax year. A negative balance is usually brought into income,
and a positive balance (or portion thereof) may usually be deducted from
income.

For more information, please refer to the [Pool of Deductible SR&ED
Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/pool-deductible-expenditures-policy.html).

**Prescribed depreciable property (PDP)** / [Biens amortissables visés
par règlement
(BAVR)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prscbdpr)

The depreciable property of a claimant that is prescribed for the
purposes of the definition [first term
shared-use-equipment](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#frsttrm)
is:

-   a building of the claimant;
-   a leasehold interest of the claimant in a building;
-   a property or part of a property of the claimant if, at the time the
    part was acquired by the claimant, the claimant or a person related
    to the claimant intended that the part would be used in the
    prosecution of SR&ED during the assembly, construction, or
    commissioning of a facility, plant or line for commercial
    manufacturing, commercial processing or other commercial purposes
    (other than SR&ED), and intended:
    -   that it would be used during its operating time in its expected
        useful life primarily for purposes other than SR&ED; or
    -   that its value would be consumed primarily in activities other
        than SR&ED.

**Prescribed expenditures** / [Dépenses
prescrites](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prxpnd)

Prescribed expenditures within the meaning of the Regulations are not
[qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd)
and, therefore, do not earn [investment tax credit
(ITC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc).

For more information, please refer to the [Total Qualified SR&ED
Expenditures for Investment Tax Credit Purposes
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/total-qualified-expenditures-investment-tax-credit-purposes-policy.html).

**Prescribed information** / [Renseignements
prescrits](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prnfrm)

Prescribed information is the information to be provided on a form or
the manner of filing a form as authorized by the Minister of National
Revenue. For more information, please refer to [section 4.0 of the SR&ED
Filing Requirements
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/filing-requirements-policy.html#s4_0).

**Prescribed proxy amount (PPA)** / [Montant de remplacement visé par
règlement
(MRVR)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prprxy)

The prescribed proxy amount is a notional amount on which
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd)
[ITC](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
can be earned. It is calculated as a percentage of a [salary
base](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#slbs).
The PPA is only applicable when the claimant elects to use the [proxy
method](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#pmthd).

The PPA is used in lieu of actual SR&ED [overhead and other
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vrhd)
when calculating [qualified SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qlfsrd)
to earn SR&ED ITC. The PPA is not included in the [pool of deductible
SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#plddct).

For more information, please refer to the [Prescribed Proxy Amount
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/prescribed-proxy-amount-policy.html).

**Primarily** /
[Principalement](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prmrly)

For SR&ED purposes, the term primarily means more than 50% but less than
90%.

**Production** /
[Production](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prdctnn)

Generally, production refers to the output from the process as well as
the act of operating the process.

**Production output** / [Extrant de
production](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prdtpt)

Production output refers to the output from the process (in other words,
the product).

**Production run** / [Cycle de
production](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prdcnrn)

In a commercial environment, companies run processes and equipment for
certain periods of time in order to achieve specific objectives. This is
generally referred to as a production run. For example, a production run
could involve the period of time during which a particular grade of
material is produced for sale. A production run could also be a period
of time during which changes to the process are validated.

**Prospecting, exploring or drilling for, or producing, minerals,
petroleum or natural gas** / [Prospection, l’exploration et le forage
fait en vue de la découverte de minéraux, de pétrole ou de gaz naturel
et leur
production](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prspct)

Prospecting, exploring or drilling for, or producing, minerals,
petroleum or natural gas is field work carried out as part of business
operations in the oil & gas and mining industries.

**Prototype** /
[Prototype](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#prttyp)

A prototype is an original model on which something new is patterned and
of which all things of the same type are representations or copies. It
is a basic experimental model that possesses the essential
characteristics of the intended product. A prototype is normally
understood to be a trial model or preliminary version. It is developed
to test the feasibility of a concept or
[hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss)
within a [systematic investigation or
search](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#systmnv)
and generally has no lasting value.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED while Developing an
Asset
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/while-developing-asset.html).

**Proxy method** / [Méthode de
remplacement](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#pmthd)

The proxy method is an alternative method to the [traditional
method](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tmthd)
in computing SR&ED expenditures. Specifically, the proxy method involves
calculating a notional amount for SR&ED [overhead and other
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vrhd)
called the [prescribed proxy amount
(PPA)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prprxy).

For more information, please refer to the [Traditional and Proxy Methods
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/traditional-proxy-methods-policy.html).

**Psychological research** / [Recherche
psychologique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#psycrsrch)

Psychological research is research into the functions of the mind and
the behaviour of humans or animals in relation to their environment.

The definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd)
specifically excludes work with respect to research in the [social
sciences](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#sclsc)
or the
[humanities](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hmnts).
Psychology is a social science; however, paragraph (d) of the definition
of SR&ED lists psychological research work as eligible work when it is
undertaken [directly in
support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt)
of an SR&ED project in a field of
[science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn)
or
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy)
other than the social sciences or humanities. Only the work with respect
to psychological research that is [commensurate with the
needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt)
and directly in support of an SR&ED project can be claimed.

For example, in many projects involving interaction between human and
machine, the interaction between a human operator and the device that he
or she is controlling poses a complex technological problem. Major
contributing factors are the physiological, neurological, and other
limitations of the human operator, considered as an element within a
servo system. The effect of these limitations implies that changes to
the purely physical elements comprised in the system may be necessary,
and that these changes can be best undertaken by simulation or actual
(or real) testing with the human operator in the servo loop. Adjustments
or modifications to the system are made until a point is reached where
the human operator can carry out a prescribed task without excessive
physical or neurological effort. Certain aspects of psychological
research may also be involved in this kind of development. Work with
respect to this type of psychological research that is directly in
support and commensurate with the needs of [basic
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch),
[applied
research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch)
or [experimental
development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt)
is considered eligible.

**Public authority** / [Administration
(publique)](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#pblc)

A public authority is generally an entity that:

-   has a duty to the public;
-   is subject to a significant degree of government control; and
-   uses its profits for the benefit of the public.

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

Q
-

**Qualified individuals** / [Personnes
qualifiées](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#qlfndv)

Qualified individuals are personnel who have qualifications and / or
experience in
[science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn),
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy)
or
[engineering](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ngnrng).
The qualifications and experience must be relevant to the science or
technology involved in the projects claimed.

**Qualified SR&ED expenditures** / [Dépenses de RS&DE
admissibles](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#qlfsrd)

The term qualified SR&ED expenditure is a term used on [Form T661,
Scientific Research and Experimental Development (SR&ED) Expenditures
Claim](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/forms/t661.html).
The term represents all the amounts that qualify for calculating the
[investment tax
credit](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nvstmnttc)
in a tax year, except for repayments of assistance and contract payments
made in that year.

For more information, please refer to the [Total Qualified SR&ED
Expenditures for Investment Tax Credit Purposes
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/total-qualified-expenditures-investment-tax-credit-purposes-policy.html).

**Qualifying corporation** / [Société
admissible](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#qcrp)

Qualifying corporation means:

-   a corporation that is a [Canadian-controlled private corporation
    (CCPC)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cndn)
    in a particular tax year, with a taxable income in the previous tax
    year that is not more than the corporation's [qualifying income
    limit](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#qncm)
    for the particular tax year, or
-   a corporation that is a CCPC in a particular tax year and is
    associated with one or more corporations and the total of the
    taxable incomes of the corporation and the associated corporations
    for their last tax year ending in the preceding calendar year that
    is not more than the corporation's qualifying income limit for the
    particular tax year.

The taxable income in the previous tax year or in the last tax year
ending in the preceding calendar year is calculated before taking into
consideration the specified future tax consequences for that previous
year.

Where a CCPC's qualifying income limit is reduced to zero because the
CCPC's taxable capital is \$50 million or greater in the immediately
preceding year, the CCPC is not a qualifying corporation and would not
be entitled to any refundable ITC.

**Qualifying income limit** / [Plafond de revenu
admissible](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#qncm)

For the 2010 and later tax years, the qualifying income limit of a
corporation for a particular tax year is the amount determined in the
ITA by the formula:

\$500,000 x \[(\$40,000,000 – A) / \$40,000,000\]

In this formula A is:

-   nil if the taxable capital amount\* is less than or equal to \$10
    million; or
-   is the lesser of \$40 million and the amount by which the taxable
    capital amount exceeds \$10 million, in any other case.

\* The taxable capital amount is the total of the corporation's taxable
capital employed in Canada for its immediately preceding tax year and
the taxable capital employed in Canada of all associated corporations
(if applicable) for the last tax year ending in the preceding calendar
year that ended before the end of the particular tax year of the
corporation. Taxable capital employed in Canada by the corporation has
the meaning provided in the ITA. For more information on taxable
capital, please refer to Interpretation Bulletin [IT 532, Part I.3 – Tax
on Large
Corporations](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/forms-publications/publications/it532.html).

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Investment Tax Credit
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/investment-tax-credit-policy.html).

**Quality control** / [Contrôle de la
qualité](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#qcntrl)

Quality control is the techniques and work that sustain the quality of a
product or service to satisfy given requirements.

Quality control consists of [data
collection](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#dtcllctn),
data analysis, and implementation, and applies to all phases of the
product life cycle: manufacturing, delivery and installation, and
operation and maintenance.

Quality control is usually concerned with the functional merits of a
material, device, product (for example, conformity to design
specifications, including defining testing procedures and minimum
quality standards), or process (for example, determining what changes
must be made to achieve or maintain the required level of quality).

Work with respect to quality control is specifically excluded from the
definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

R
-

**Related benefits** / [Avantages
connexes](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rbnfts)

Related benefits include the employer’s share of payments to the Canada
Pension Plan (CPP) or the Quebec Pension Plan (QPP), Employment
Insurance (EI), the Worker’s Compensation Board (WCB), or the Commission
de la santé et de la sécurité du travail du Québec (CSST), an approved
employee pension plan, or employee medical, dental, or optical insurance
plans, and premiums to a superannuation plan.

For more information, please refer to [section 5.1 of the SR&ED Salary
or Wages
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html#s5_1).

**Related to a business of the claimant** / [En rapport avec une
entreprise du
demandeur](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rbsnss)

The words **related to the business** should be interpreted broadly. For
SR&ED to be related to a business carried on by a claimant, it is
necessary to have some interconnection or link between the SR&ED work
and the general area of the claimant's business. For greater certainty,
SR&ED related to a business includes any SR&ED that may lead to, or
facilitate, an extension of that business.

The prosecution of SR&ED, in and of itself is only considered a business
of the claimant to which SR&ED relates if the claimant derives [all or
substantially all
(ASA)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#llr)
of its revenue from the prosecution of SR&ED.

Where a claimant is a corporation, and the SR&ED performed by the
claimant relates to a business actively carried on by a related
([non-arm’s
length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nl))
corporation at the time when the SR&ED was performed, the related to the
business requirement is satisfied for the claimant.

**Remuneration based on profits** / [Rémunération fondée sur les
bénéfices](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rmnrtnb)

Remuneration based on profit means any remuneration to an employee that
is conditional on the profit of the business or that is a portion of the
profit of the business.

**Retiring allowance** / [Allocation de
retraite](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#rtrng)

A retiring allowance is an amount paid on or after the retirement of an
employee in recognition of long service or in respect of the loss of an
office or employment. A retiring allowance is not considered to be
[salary or
wages](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#swgs)
by definition. As a result, a retiring allowance cannot be allowed as
salary or wages under either the [traditional
method](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tmthd)
or the [proxy
method](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#pmthd).
A claimant may be able to treat a retiring allowance as [overhead and
other
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#vrhd)
under the traditional method if it is [directly related to the
prosecution of
SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#rltd)
and is
[incremental](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrmntl).

For more information, please refer to [section 4.4 of the SR&ED Overhead
and Other Expenditures
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/overhead-other-expenditures-policy.html#s4_4).

</div>

<div class="mwsbodytext text parbase section">

S
-

**Salary base** / [Base
salariale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#slbs)

The salary base is an amount used to calculate the [prescribed proxy
amount
(PPA)](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#prprxy).
The PPA for a tax year is a percentage of the salary base, subject to
the overall PPA cap.

The salary base is composed of the [salaries or
wages](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#swgs)
(incurred and paid in the tax year or paid within 180 days of the tax
year-end) of employees who are [directly engaged in
SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nggd)
and that are included in the [pool of deductible SR&ED
expenditures](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#plddct).
However, the salary base cannot include [taxable
benefits](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tbnfts),
[remuneration based on
profits](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#rmnrtnb),
or bonuses, or prior years unpaid salary or wages paid in the tax year.
In addition, the amount of [salary or
wages](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#swgs)
that can be taken into account is further restricted for a [specified
employee](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spcfd).

For more information, please refer to the [Prescribed Proxy Amount
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/prescribed-proxy-amount-policy.html).

**Salary or wages** / [Traitements ou
salaires](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#swgs)

The term salary or wages is defined in the ITA and means income from an
office or employment. Salary or wages generally includes any expenditure
made in respect of a [taxable
benefit](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tbnfts)
as well as vacation pay, statutory holiday pay, sick leave pay, pay in
lieu of termination notice, bonuses, tips and gratuities, honorariums,
director's fees, management fees and commissions.

Salary or wages do not include amounts in respect of the employer’s
shares of the related benefits, amounts for extended vacation or sick
leave, stock options benefits and retiring allowance.

These amounts must be incurred and paid in the tax year or paid within
180 days of the tax year-end.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Salary or Wages
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html).

**Sales promotion** / [Promotion des
ventes](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#sls)

Sales promotion is work that supplements advertising and personal
selling; coordinating them, and making them effective.

Sales promotion work generally includes stimulating sales through
options such as:

-   special offers;
-   demonstrations;
-   contests;
-   samples;
-   discounts;
-   exhibitions or trade shows;
-   games;
-   giveaways;
-   public relations; and
-   point-of-sale displays and merchandising.

Work with respect to sales promotion is specifically excluded from the
definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).

**Science** /
[Sciences](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#scn)

Science is a branch of study in which phenomena are observed and
classified and, usually, in which quantitative and qualitative relations
are formulated and verified.

**Scientific or technological advancement / scientific advancement /
advancement of scientific knowledge / technological advancement**
/ [Avancement scientifique ou technologique / avancement scientifique /
avancement des connaissances scientifiques / avancement ou progrès
technologique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#dvncmnt)

Scientific or technological advancement is the generation of information
or the discovery of knowledge that advances the understanding of
scientific relations or technology. This definition encompasses the
definition of scientific advancement, advancement of scientific
knowledge and technological advancement. The only difference is that
scientific advancement and advancement of scientific knowledge relate to
[science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn)
whereas technological advancement relates to
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy).

For more information, please refer to [section 2.1.4 of the Eligibility
of Work for SR&ED Investment Tax Credits
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/eligibility-work-investment-tax-credits.html#s2_1_4).

**Scientific or technological knowledge base** / [Base de connaissances
scientifiques ou
technologiques](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#tbslvl)

Scientific or technological knowledge base refers to the existing level
of
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy)
and scientific knowledge, and consists of the knowledge of the resources
within the company and sources available publicly.

The resources within the company include:

-   technical knowledge, education, training, and experience of its
    personnel; and
-   its technical capabilities typified by its current products,
    techniques, practices, and methodologies (for example, trade secrets
    and intellectual property).

Publicly available sources generally include scientific papers,
journals, textbooks, and internet-based information sources as well as
expertise accessible to the company (for example, through recruiting
employees or hiring consultants or contractors). The company is expected
to have information that is common knowledge at the time the work is
performed. Common knowledge is knowledge available to professionals
familiar with the specific areas of
[science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn)
or technology in question.

It is recognized that, although the knowledge available publicly is the
same for all companies, the scientific or technological knowledge base
may vary from company to company because the internal resources can vary
from company to company.

**Note**\
The following are the explanation of changes to this term as of April
24, 2015.

1.  The term “technology base or level” has been changed to “scientific
    or technological knowledge base.” The change is to clarify that the
    concept applies equally to basic research, applied research, and
    experimental development.
2.  “publications” has been removed from the list of sources generally
    included in as publicly available. This was considered redundant.
3.  “consultants” was added to the list of examples of expertise
    accessible to the company.
4.  The last paragraph was modified for readability.

**Scientific or technological uncertainty / scientific uncertainty /
technological uncertainty / technological obstacle** / [Incertitude
scientifique ou technologique / incertitude scientifique / incertitude
technologique / obstacle
technologique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#ncrtnty)

Scientific or technological uncertainty means whether a given result or
objective can be achieved or how to achieve it, is not known or
determined on the basis of generally available scientific or
technological knowledge or experience. This definition encompasses the
definition of scientific uncertainty, technological uncertainty and
technological obstacle. The only difference is that scientific
uncertainty relates to
[science](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#scn)
whereas technological uncertainty and technological obstacle relate to
[technology](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#tchnlgy).

For more information, please refer to [section 2.1.1 of the Eligibility
of Work for SR&ED Investment Tax Credits
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/eligibility-work-investment-tax-credits.html#s2_1_1).


**Specified employee** / [Employé
déterminé](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#spcfd)

A specified employee is an employee who does not deal at [arm's
length](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#rmslngth)
with the employer or who is a specified shareholder of the employer. A
specified shareholder is a person who owns, directly or indirectly, at
any time during the year, 10% or more of the issued shares of any class
of the capital stock of the employer or of any corporation related to
the employer. A specified employee could also be someone related to a
specified shareholder; e.g. a sister, a brother, a spouse, etc.

For more information, please refer to the [SR&ED Salary or Wages
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/salary-wages-policy.html).


**Style change** / [Modification de
style](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#stylc)

A style change is a change in the physical appearance or arrangement of
an article without altering its utility, efficiency, function, or
operating characteristics.

Work with respect to style changes is specifically excluded from the
definition of
[SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd).


**System uncertainty** / [Incertitude systémique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#systmnc)

System uncertainty is a form of [technological uncertainty](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ncrtnty) that can arise from or during the integration of technologies, the components of which are generally well known. This is due to unpredictable interactions between the individual components or sub-systems.

![Law] Justice D’Auray in Formadrain Inc. v. The Queen, 2017 TCC 42 at para. 93, 2017 DTC 1022, specified that “In other words, the lacking knowledge must really not exist in the base of scientific or technological knowledge, not simply be unknown to the claimant.”

For more information, please refer to [section 2.1.1 of the Eligibility of Work for SR&ED Investment Tax Credits Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/eligibility-work-investment-tax-credits.html#s2_1_1).

**Systematic investigation or search** / [Investigation ou recherche
systématique](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#systmnv)

The systematic investigation or search called for in the definition of [SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd) is an approach that includes defining a problem, advancing a [hypothesis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#hypthss) towards resolving that problem, planning and testing the hypothesis by [experiment](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xprmnt) or [analysis](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#nlyss), and developing logical conclusions based on the results. For more information, please refer to [section 2.1.3 of the Eligibility of Work for SR&ED Investment Tax Credits Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/eligibility-work-investment-tax-credits.html#s2_1_3).


**Technology** /
[Technologie](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#tchnlgy)

Technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge and
principles.

While technology can be represented in physical form (patents,
procedures, design documents, manuals, etc.), it is not a physical
entity. It is the knowledge of how scientifically determined facts and
principles are embodied in the material, device, product, or process.

**Testing / routine testing** / [Mise à l’essai / mise à l'essai
normale](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#tstng)

Testing is the application of procedures designed to observe, measure, or verify attributes, properties, or performance. The term routine testing refers to testing performed during the course of normal business operations, for example, testing carried out primarily to determine user acceptance, suitability, marketability, or competitive assessment. Work with respect to routine testing is specifically excluded from the definition of [SR&ED](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#srd). Only the testing work that is [commensurate with the needs](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#cmmnsrt) and [directly in support](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#spprt) of [basic research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#bscrsrch), [applied research](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#ppldrsrch) or [experimental development](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/glossary.html#xpdvlpmnt) is eligible


**Traditional method** / [Méthode
traditionnelle](https://www.canada.ca/fr/agence-revenu/services/recherche-scientifique-developpement-experimental-programme-encouragements-fiscaux/glossaire.html#tmthd)

The traditional method involves specifically identifying and claiming
all overhead and other expenditures, directly attributable to the SR&ED
carried on in Canada, that the claimant incurred during the year.

For more information, please refer to the [Traditional and Proxy Methods
Policy](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/scientific-research-experimental-development-tax-incentive-program/traditional-proxy-methods-policy.html).


[Note]:https://github.com/seenthattinker/Conceptinero/blob/master/images/write-a-note-icon-vector-20994413.jpg

[Attention]:https://github.com/seenthattinker/Conceptinero/blob/master/images/dart.png

[Example]:https://github.com/seenthattinker/Conceptinero/blob/master/images/example.png

[Law]:https://github.com/seenthattinker/Conceptinero/blob/master/images/law-pic.jpg
